# CS-360
Mobile Architecture &amp; Design

The app I developed was an inventory management app. The app needed to have registration and login functionality and support an inventory management system using a database. When complete, the app would allow users to create an account, login, and begin using the inventory management system. This system necessitated the ability to add, edit, and remove inventory items. The app included a login/registration screen, an inventory management screen, and a settings screen. The inventory management screen consisted of a list of inventory items with the item name and quantity displayed, as well as buttons to raise or lower the quantity, a button to add items, and a button to delete items. The settings page consisted of an optional SMS notifications feature that would notify the user when the stock reached 0 if they accepted the permissions request.

I built the app first by setting up the UI and then I tackled one screen at a time working from the login screen to the inventory screen to the settings screen. I researched what libraries and resources I could make use of and got to work one function at a time, breaking it up into smaller problems and tackling them individually. I used my Samsung Galaxy to conduct all of my testing and aside from a few hiccups where I had done something incorrectly it was mostly uneventful, everything worked out as planned in the end. The login actually worked perfectly on the first try.

The most challenging part of developing this app was figuring out the logic for the inventory screen and how all of that was supposed to work, I had to do a bit of research to solve some of the issues I was having with crashes, fields not populating, buttons not working as intended. That was pretty short lived though as I was able to sort it out relatively quickly. I think my best work was definitely on the login /registration function. I don't remember any requirements about password security, but I was having fun building the login so I decided it would be a good time to learn about Android's native hashing tools. I set everything up so that the user passwords would be hashed with a generated salt upon registration, and then both would be saved for authentication purposes in the login function the passwords before saving them in the database with salts.
